---
layout: paper
title: "The methyltransferase adaptor protein Trm112 is involved in biogenesis of both ribosomal subunits"
year: "2012"
shortref: "Sardana <i>et al.</i> <i>MBoC</i> 2012"
nickname: trm112-ribosome-biogenesis
journal: "MBoC"
volume: 23
issue: 21
pages: 4313-4322
authors: "Richa Sardana, Arlen W Johnson"
image: /assets/images/papers/2012-sardana-mboc.png
redirect_from: 
fulltext: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22956767/
pdflink: 
github: 
pmid: 22956767
pmcid: PMC3484107
f1000: 
doi: "10.1091/mbc.E12-05-0370"
dryad_doi: 
figshare_doi: 
altmetric_id: 
category: paper
# Note: 'published' is a Jekyll keyword and does not refer to whether the paper is published, but rather to whether this Markdown should be part of the rendered site.
published: true
preprint: false
embargo: false	
peerreview: true
review: false
tags: [yeast, Bud23, ribosome biogenesis, Trm112, rRNA methyltransferase]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Abstract 

We previously identified Bud23 as the methyltransferase that methylates G1575 of rRNA in the P-site of the small (40S) ribosomal subunit. In this paper, we show that Bud23 requires the methyltransferase adaptor protein Trm112 for stability in vivo. Deletion of Trm112 results in a bud23Δ-like mutant phenotype. Thus Trm112 is required for efficient small-subunit biogenesis. Genetic analysis suggests the slow growth of a trm112Δ mutant is due primarily to the loss of Bud23. Surprisingly, suppression of the bud23Δ-dependent 40S defect revealed a large (60S) biogenesis defect in a trm112Δ mutant. Using sucrose gradient sedimentation analysis and coimmunoprecipitation, we show that Trm112 is also involved in 60S subunit biogenesis. The 60S defect may be dependent on Nop2 and Rcm1, two additional Trm112 interactors that we identify. Our work extends the known range of Trm112 function from modification of tRNAs and translation factors to both ribosomal subunits, showing that its effects span all aspects of the translation machinery. Although Trm112 is required for Bud23 stability, our results suggest that Trm112 is not maintained in a stable complex with Bud23. We suggest that Trm112 stabilizes its free methyltransferase partners not engaged with substrate and/or helps to deliver its methyltransferase partners to their substrates.