---
layout: post
title: "Summary-Paper 16"
description: ""
author_handle: richa
category: blog
tags: [journal club, literature review, TGN, AP-1 adaptor, MDCK cells,structured illumination microscopy, yeast two-hybrid (Y2H), Arf, AP-1-µ1A, AP-1-µ1B, IL6R-β, PVR, LDLR]
---
*Summary- paper 16:*
 **The Adaptor Protein-1 μ1B Subunit Expands the Repertoire of Basolateral Sorting Signal Recognition in Epithelial Cells**

Xiaoli Guo, Rafael Mattera, Xuefeng Ren, Yu Chen, Claudio Retamal, Alfonso González, Juan S. Bonifacino

[Developmental Cell, 2013](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.devcel.2013.10.006)


*Questions/gaps addressed:* 

- Epithelial cells are polarized into an apical side that faces the exterior or lumen of body structures and a basolateral side that contacts neighboring cells and the underlying basement membrane. Protein sorting to the basolateral plasma membrane is mediated by signals in their cytosolic tails. AP-1 adaptor plays an important role in basolateral protein sorting.  

- Why do polarized epithelial cells express two isoforms of the μ1 subunit of the AP-1 clathrin adaptor complex: the ubiquitous μ1A and the epithelial-specific μ1B? What are the differences between these isoforms and how do they affect function of their respective AP-1 complexes?

- μ1A and μ1B are highly homologous (∼80% overall amino acid sequence identity in mammals). 


*Major hypotheses:*

- Since μ1B is epithelial-specific, hypothesized that μ1B might confer on AP-1 the ability to recognize cargoes that are not efficiently recognized by μ1A. 


*Key methods:* 

-  μ1A and μ1B tagged at the C termini with a 10-aa spacer (GSGSGGSGSG) followed by three copies of the hemagglutinin (HA) or Myc epitope. Transient transfection into nonpolarized Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) epithelial cells. Immunostaining and confocal fluorescence microscopy showed localization of both proteins to a juxtanuclear structure characteristic of the TGN/REs, and colocalized with endogenous γ-adaptin, but not early endosomes (EEA1).

- C-terminal tag was functional based on LDLR trafficking to the basolateral surface. N-terminal tagging does not work well for the µ subunits. 

- Superresolution structured illumination microscopy (SR-SIM), which has a resolution limit of ∼100 nm to look at co-localization of µ1A and µ1B. They co-localize in non-polarized cells. Saw the same thing with TIRF microscopy. 

- MDCK cells grown into polarized monolayers on Transwell filters. Confocal fluorescence microscopy showed localization of endogenous γ-adaptin to a subapical compartment characteristic of the TGN/REs.  μ1A-GFP and μ1B-mCherry colocalized to the same subapical compartment.

- Subcellular fractionation on 40%–60% sucrose gradients to examine the distribution of μ1A-HA and μ1B-Myc. Both cosedimented on 40%–60% sucrose gradients in association with clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs) containing clathrin and γ-adaptin. 

- Arf1 (regulated by BFA-sensitive GEFs) and Arf6 (regulated by BFA-sensitive and BFA-insensitive GEFs). Dominant-negative Arf1 mutant (Arf1-T31N) displaced both AP-1A and AP-1B complexes from TGN/REs to cytosol, Arf6 mutant (Arf6-T27N) was less efficient. 

- Glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay to compare the binding of recombinant AP-1A and AP-1B core complexes to different Arfs in vitro. Both AP-1 variants bound to constitutively active forms of class I and II Arfs: Arf1, Arf4, and Arf5 and, to a lesser extent, Arf6. 

- Screened the cytosolic tails of a large number of cargo proteins for interaction with μ1A and μ1B, using a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H). 
	- Most tails that tested positive in this assay interacted with both μ1A and μ1B e.g., LAMP1. 
	- Preferential binding to μ1A : interleukin-6 receptor α chain [IL6R-α] 
	- Preferential binding to μ1B : interleukin-6 receptor β chain [IL6R-β], poliovirus receptor [PVR], low density lipoprotein receptor [LDLR].
		- The LDLR tail contains two basolateral sorting signals: a proximal signal comprising a tyrosine residue (Y828) and an acidic patch (EDE 833-835), and a distal signal comprising two tyrosine residues (Y845 and Y847) and another acidic patch (EED 856-858). All of these elements were required for interaction with μ1B.

- Pull-down using full-length LDLR tail fused to maltose-binding protein (MBP) and recombinant AP-1A and AP-1B core complexes tagged with GST, in the absence or presence of the constitutively active Arf1 Q71L mutant to test for interactions with the locked or open conformations of the AP-1 core. Pull-down with amylose beads followed by immunoblotting with antibody to GST. LDLR tail bound AP-1B ∼5-fold more avidly than AP-1A. Arf1 Q71L activated binding of both, and binding was dependent on Y845 and Y847 in the LDLR tail. 



*Major takeaways:*


- the μ1A and μ1B subunit isoforms of AP-1 were previously proposed to specify localization of the complex to different intracellular compartments. Demonstrated that is not the case.

- Correlation between basolateral sorting and preferential interaction with μ1B for at least three cargo proteins (i.e., IL6R-β, PVR, and LDLR)




 



