---
layout: post
title: "A paper everyday-Paper 7"
description: ""
author_handle: richa
category: blog
tags: [journal club, literature review, Yeast, Endocytic recycling, trans-Golgi, Tlg2, endosome, SNARE, fluorescence microscopy]
---
*A paper a day- paper 7:*
 **The yeast endocytic early/sorting compartment exists as an independent sub-compartment within the trans-Golgi network**

Junko Y. Toshima, Ayana Tsukahara, Makoto Nagano, Takuro Tojima, Daria E. Siekhaus, Akihiko Nakano, Jiro Toshima

[Biorxiv, 2022](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.11.21.517324v1.abstract?%3Fcollection=)

*Questions/gaps addressed:* 

- How and where do uncoated endocytic vesicles get delivered to the early/sorting endosome compartment in yeast? i.e. What is the first destination of endocytic cargos in yeast? Which Q-SNARE (target SNARE) engages with the vesicles (Tlg2?)?

- Conflicting observations in literature- (1) Sec7-residing TGN (trans-Golgi network) is the first endocytic compartment; (2) two endosomal compartments in yeast- one with Rab5/Vps21, other with Rab7/Ypt7; (3) endocytosed cargos rarely transported to Sec7-TGN. Why the inconsistencies? Limitation in imaging technologies? 

*Key methods:* 

- Simultaneous triple-color and 4D (3D plus time) super-resolution confocal live imaging microscopy (SCLIM) to monitor cargo trafficking in yeast

*Major takeaways:*

- Localization dynamics of Tlg2 and Sec7 at the TGN are distinct. Tlg2 appears at the TGN earlier than Sec7 and disappears before Sec7 from the TGN. 

- Localization of pHrode Red-α-factor (endocytic cargo) overlaps more with Tlg2 5 min post endocytosis than Sec7. Tlg2 appears to localize with the cargo throughout the early-to-late stage endosomes.

- Vps21p partially localizes around the TGN (overlap with Sec7) as well as in endosomal compartments (overlap with Tlg2). Tlg2 is transported to the PVC (prevacuolar compartment) via the Vps21-residing compartment without passing through the Sec7-TGN. How does Tlg2 get back to the early-TGN?

- γ-adaptin ear containing, Arf binding protein (GGA) adaptors, Gga1 and Gga2; and epsin-related proteins, Ent3/5 are required for delivery of α-factor from TGN to PVC. AP1 adaptor not needed. GGAs arrive at the TGN earlier than AP1. 

- Gga1/2 important for delivery of Tlg2 compartment to endosome (signal for Gga- Ub on cargos destined for lysosomal degradation?). Ent3/5 important for Vps9 (GEF for Vps21) delivery from TGN to endosome. Nice model figure!


 



