---
layout: post
title: "Summary-Paper 18"
description: ""
author_handle: richa
category: blog
tags: [journal club, literature review, Erd2, KDEL, HDEL, KDEL receptor, Golgi apparatus, Arabidopsis, Nicotiana benthamiana, α-amylase, Erp1 ]
---
*Summary- paper 18:*
 **Predominant Golgi Residency of the Plant K/HDEL Receptor Is Essential for Its Function in Mediating ER Retention**

Fernanda A.L. Silva-Alvim, Jing An, Jonas C. Alvim, Ombretta Foresti, Alexandra Grippa, Alexandra Pelgrom, Thomas L. Adams, Chris Hawes, and Jurgen Denecke

[The Plant Cell, 2018](https://academic.oup.com/plcell/article/30/9/2174/6100230)


*Questions/gaps addressed:* 

- How do the cascade of interactions between KDEL ligands, ERD2, G-proteins, and protein kinase A, explain the transport of K/HDEL proteins back to the ER?


*Key methods:* 

-  Fusion protein Amy-HDEL (Barley α-amylase (Amy)) as cargo. Cotransfection with increasing amounts of ERD2a reduced the partial secretion of Amy-HDEL.

- Used a hybrid/ fusion ERD2 construct (NbERD2ab)- N term and 4 TMs of Erd2a + 4 TM and C term of Erd2b. Fusion effective in retention of Amy-HDEL. The two forms are interchangeable.

- Fluorescent reporters: ST-YFP or ST-YFP-HDEL. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transient expression in infiltrated tobacco leaf epidermis cells followed by confocal laser scanning microscopy. ST-YFP predominantly at the Golgi, ST-YFP-HDEL retained in the ER. Overexpression of Amy-HDEL caused a partial redistribution of ST-YFP-HDEL to the Golgi.

- N- and C-terminal YFP tagged Erd2: Erd2-YFP at eR+ Golgi. YFP-Erd2 predominantly ER.  Both defective in Amy-HDEL retention. Tagging kills Erd2 function. Addition of N-terminal signal peptide and a short decapeptide harboring an N-linked glycosylation site, secYFP-Erd2, is only at the Golgi but is non-functional.

- Addition of an N-terminal transmembrane domain to Erd2, similar to the one in Erp1, (cytosolic YFP followed by an additional TMD) results in Golgi localization, and is partially functional for Amy-HDEL retention. Overexpression of Amy-HDEl does not result in ER re-localizatio of Erd2.

- C-tail mutations: 
	- dileucine in the C-tail: mutation kills Amy-HDEL retention. The mutant localizes to the ER + Golgi.
	- deletion mutant lacking the last predicted TM domain and the cytosolic tail of Erd2. Mutant in the ER.
	

*Major takeaways:*

- Tetrapeptides KDEL and HDEL both prevent reporter protein secretion equally well in plant cells.

- Both N- and C-terminal fluorescent tagging interferes with ERD2 activity.

- N-terminal tagging of ERD2 can result in Golgi-localized fluorescent fusions as long as the ERD2 N terminus is lumenal. The lumenal N term needs to remain unobstructed for function. 

- Golgi residency and biological function require a conserved dileucine motif interrupted with a nonconserved amino acid (LXL) near the Erd2 C terminus. 

