---
layout: post
title: "Summary-Paper 13"
description: ""
author_handle: richa
category: blog
tags: [journal club, literature review, CRISPR screen, CRISPRi, CRISPRa, heat shock response (HSR), heat shock proteins, yeast, chaperones, Hsf1, Hsp70, Ssa1, cell cycle, temperature stress, anhydrotetracycline (ATc), FACS,  ]
---
*Summary- paper 13:*
 **Gene dosage screens in yeast reveal core signalling pathways controlling heat adaptation**

Cosimo Jann, Andreas Johansson, Justin D. Smith, Leopold Parts, Lars M. Steinmetz

[Biorxiv, 2020](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.08.26.267674v2.full)

*Questions/gaps addressed:* 

- Heat shock induces significant transcriptional and transational changes in yeast and higher organisms but bulk of heat-induced changes seem dispensable. What mechanisms are essential for cell survival?


*Key methods:* 

- Inducible CRISPRi/a systems using a catalytically inactive Cas9 nuclease fused to transcriptional repression or activation domains to modulate levels of 129 protein kinases and 161 transcription factors in yeast (6 sgRNAs/gene), to screen for effects on cellular fitness at temperatures 23째C, 30째C and 38째C. 

- Employed the Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 fused to the human Mxi1 repressor which both evolved to operate around 37째C. Tet-inducible dCas9-MxiI and dCas9-nGal4-VP64 plasmids (AddGene #73796 and #71128). 

- Chemically synthesized gRNA oligonucleotide libraries (CustomArray, Inc. (GenScript)) amplified by PCR and integrated into pRS416 dCas9-Mxi1 plasmid via Gibson Assembly with 30bp homology regions, or ligation with T4 DNA Ligase. - R code for screen analysis on [Github](https://github.com/IAmTheMatrix/CRISPRi_Screen_Analysis/)

- Validate repression/ activation from anhydrotetracycline (ATc)-inducible gRNA agaisnt Hsf1 transcription factor and monitor effect on growth rate. Quantify Hsf1 function with a truncated promoter of the SSA1 HSP70 gene driving GFP reporter, and FACS to monitor inheritibility.

*Major takeaways:*

- CRISPRi efficiency depends on the GC content and secondary structure of gRNAs. The optimal range forgRNA target locus  is between TSS-150 to TSS+25 nucleotides, with minor variation between target strands. Effective repression observed in CRISPRi strains over time and all temperatures. 

- Multiple pathways (HSR, HOG, UPR, cell cycle) controlling HSR activity that affect chaperone stability and expression levels needed for thermotolerance.



 



