---
layout: post
title: "A paper everyday-Paper 3"
description: ""
author_handle: richa
category: blog
tags: [journal club, literature review, Cell culture, HeLa, MEFs, Autophagy, autophagic vesicles, FACS, quantitative lipidomics, proteomics, Bafilomycin A1, negative stain EM, ]
---
*A paper a day- paper 3:*
 **Lipid and protein content profiling of isolated native autophagic vesicles**

Daniel Schmitt, Süleyman Bozkurt, Pascale Henning-Domres, Heike Huesmann, Stefan Eimer, Laura Bindila, Christian Behrends, Emily Boyle, Florian Wilfling, Georg Tascher, Christian Münch, Christian Behl, Andreas Kern

[EMBO Reports, 2022](https://www.embopress.org/doi/full/10.15252/embr.202153065)

*Questions/gaps addressed:* 

- What is the impact of different autophagy conditions on the exact Phospholipid and cargo contents of autophagosomes/autophagic vesicles?

- Optimize a method for the isolation of unmanipulated autophagic vesicles at large quantities for rapid lipid and cargo profiling.


*Key methods:* 

- anti-Atg8 antibody-based FACS mediated isolation approach to purify intact native autophagic vesicles from bafilomycin A1 (accumulates autophagic vesicles) treated HeLa cell homogenates. 

- negative stain electron microscopy to visualize intact vesicles, and proteinase K digestion assay for p62/SQSTM1 to evaluate intactness

- quantitative lipidomics and proteomics analyses to identify PLs and cargo proteins of autophagic vesicles

*Major takeaways:*

- Antibody binding in cell homogenates and FACS enrichment based pipeline can isolate intact autophagic vesicles

- Size evaluation of isolated vesicles: diameters range from 340 to 1,150 nm

- phosphatidylcholine (PC) enriched: accounts for 42% of all detected PLs in autophagic vesicles. Also contain sphingomyelin (SM). Phosphatidylglycerol (PG) appears to be excluded. 

- Protein composition of autophagic vesicles (dataset EV1): identified >4000 proteins. Composition varied more upon proteasome inhibition than starvation.

- Approach does not distinguish between autophagosomes and autolysosomes. 




 



