---
layout: post
title: "New student guide"
description: "All the things to know about getting started in the Sardana lab"
about: true
author_handle: richa
tags: [lab manual, new lab, ]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Welcome to the Sardana lab!
{: .no_toc }

This page includes quickstart guides for new lab members. It includes lab values, expectations and responsibilities. Group members are welcome to propose changes, add comments, and work with Richa to update the document. 


* TOC
{:toc}

<a name="values"></a>

# Lab values

We can achieve our full potential only if our research environment comprises of a diverse team of people that bring together unique perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds. We will strive to create an environment in which all lab members respect each other, feel comfortable to express themselves, and make useful contributions.

<a name="communication"></a>

# Communication expectations

Talk to people. Ask questions. Answer questions. Admit when you don't know the answer. Be curious. But be kind and respectful of others. We will likely be more productive in our research if our lab space is a welcoming and happy environment.

Most _internal_ lab day-to-day communication happens on Slack first. When it's helpful to talk to someone "in person" or by call - ask to set it up. All lab member cell phone numbers will be saved on the Lab drive.  

Most _external_ communication happens on email. If you're asking a lab business-related question, if in doubt cc Richa.

Most lab events will be posted on the Sardana lab calendar, and some will be listed on the Slack channel as well.

These are asynchronous communication channels - *you don't need to respond immediately*.
Set notification schedules on Slack so that you aren't disturbed when you're focused on a task or you're off work or asleep, and ignore emails then too. However, *please respond to email & Slack messages within one ordinary working day*, i.e. a weekday when you're not on leave, nor at a conference or training session, nor doing a stressful experiment such as a timecourse. 
If you don't have a full response, it's courteous to respond saying "I don't know, can I get back to you tomorrow/next week/when I've done some reading". 
If you're not working, set an autoreply to do that for you. 
If you ask someone else a question and they don't get back to you, ask again the next ordinary working day.

<a name="access"></a>

# Lab access 

The lab is in the [Veterinary Medical Center](https://www.google.com/maps/place/930+Campus+Rd,+Ithaca,+NY+14853/@42.4474267,-76.4673541,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x89d081f87ed5e193:0x37bbabbf4ca02fc8!8m2!3d42.4474267!4d-76.4651654) in the Department of Molecular Medicine at Cornell University's Ithaca campus. The building requires ID card access after hours, and the lab space and the student office need key access- discuss with Richa if and how to request access permissions for you. 


<a name="planning"></a>

# Lab Presence

It is expected that all lab members will apply a consistent and professional effort to their research, and remain in communication with the broader group. This includes making an honest effort to advance research efforts, attending meetings with Richa, lab meetings, journal clubs and departmental seminars. 

## Lab meetings

Everyone is expected to attend, where possible:

* Lab meetings.
* Scheduled one-on-one meetings with Richa.
* Lab journal club meetings.
* Lab socials.
* DEI group discussions.

<!--For full details, see the [meetings overview lab manual page](meetings-overview). --> 


## Nearby seminars, happy hours, etc.

Attendance is encouraged for: 
* Departmental Journal Club
* Departmenal Work in Progress (WIPs)
* Departmental and other relevant seminars
* Departmental happy hours and mixers

<a name="computing"></a>

# Computing

There are a lot of different online tools, this guide is a starter:

## Cornell NETID 

First you'll need your university email account including a *NETID* and password. You will need your Cornell NETID login to access various softwares and the VPN.

<!--The university's email goes by default to [outlook](https://outlook.office.com/owa/?realm=ed.ac.uk), although it is possible to set up with other clients. 
Outlook has the advantage of interfacing with the outlook calendar system, sharepoint, microsoft teams, and so on.
So, we use it for the lab calendar. -->


## Accounts to create

### Slack - lab talk

[Sardana lab slack workspace](https://sardanalabslack.slack.com/) - this is where most of the lab talk happens. Sign up first so you can ask other questions there.

### Outlook and Google calendar groups

Request access to the calendar for lab activities, as well as to sign up for shared departmental equipment. 

### VPN - off-campus access

For many off-campus options you connect through the VPN (virtual private network).

Register for a VPN account using: [information services vpn site](https://it.cornell.edu/cuvpn). 

### Shared data storage space

Please request access to the lab's online storage space. 

### Electronic lab notebook

You are required to take exhaustive lab notes, and strongly encouraged to maintain an electronic notebook. These notebooks should be uploaded on the lab's online storage space. 

### Protocol sharing

All laboratory protocols are shared on the lab's online Sharepoint database. 

### Lab inventories

All lab inventories and databases (chemicals, enzymes, strains, plasmids, oligos) reside on the online storage space. You can use your Cornell netID to login and access/edit the databases, and make ordering requests. 

### ORCID

[ORCID](https://orcid.org/) provides a persistent digital identifier (an ORCID iD) that you own and control, and that distinguishes you from every other researcher. Set one up, it will be useful.


<a name="safety"></a>

# Safety and training

All lab personnel need to take online EH&S training for basic laboratory safety. Some members may need more specialized training if their work requires handling specialized samples. You will also need to be added to the MUA with Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC). Discuss the training and authorization you need with Richa. The guidelines for general laboratory safety can also be accessed on the [EHS website](https://ehs.cornell.edu/research-safety/general-laboratory-safety).


<a name="richa_checklist"></a>

# Richa's Checklist

* Request building and lab access
* Request access to VPN 
* Invite to Slack
* Invite to lab calendar
* Invite to Quartzy for order requests
* Invite to Lab Sharepoint online database
* Request access for Software licenses
* Request IBC authorization and safety training

<a name="fix_things"></a>

# Fix missing things

Is there something that you needed to know that wasn't covered here? Ask the lab on slack. Ask other people until you get an answer. Then suggest an update to this information, so that the next person who needs it can benefit too.
