---
layout: post
title: "STEM outreach efforts"
about: true
author_handle: richa
tags: [lab manual, Mentoring, STEM, Inclusion, Science communication, Outreach]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

* TOC
{:toc}


As trained scientists, it is our responsibility to share our enthusiasm and expertise with the broader public. Listed below are some of the outreach activities our lab has organized:


# Scienspur program for STEM education

July, 2023: Richa led a lecture on concepts of cell biology to as part of the Scienspur program organized by the South Asian Institute at Harvard University to provide STEM education to economically disadvantaged students attending public funded colleges and universities in India.


# Expanding your horizons outreach for STEM 

Apr, 2023: Sardana lab organized two hands-on workshops for 9th grade Ithaca high school students on building and using a simple mircroscope. Thus workshop was part of the 'Expand your horizons' program to encourage your girls to pursue STEM careers.


# Microscopy workshop using foldscope 

Sept, 2022: Richa organized an outreach workshop in collaboration with Advancing Secondary Science Education through Tetrahymena (ASSET) program on using foldscopes to explore the natural world. The workshop was led by Dr. Manu Prakash (Stanford) and organized as part of the invited Barbara McClintock lecture at Cornell.


# NSF-REU Molecular Biology and Genetics of Cell Signaling

2022 onwards: Summer Research Experience, NSF funded REU Molecular Biology and Genetics of Cell Signaling: Sardana lab participates in mentoring and engaging with the summer REU students in a ten-week summer program with a strong focus on diversity.


# Consider Cornell program

2022 onwards: Richa participates as Faculty mentor to help diversify graduate programs at Cornell.


# Molecular Medicine Diversity Council

2022: Molecular Medicine Diversity council: Richa chaired the Diversity council to create a document on Inclusivity and commitments that define the values of the department of Molecular Medicine. 





